—Glaze Lily—

The Glaze Lily is a rare and precious plant in the Liyue of today. This noble yet delicate flora is seemingly only found in Liyue's gardens, as well as a few remote areas of the wilderness. Due to their preference for wet conditions, they most often grow near water sources.
Glaze Lilies love water, light, and the sound of singing. Those found growing in the vicinity of beautiful music will exhibit exceptional growth, whilst those found near laments and disputes are weak, withered, and sallow.
Before the age of warring gods, in an era when the mortal and immortal inhabited the vast land of Liyue together, Glaze Lilies were once found throughout the fertile soils of Guili Plains and Dihua Marsh. At that time, this fragile yet cherished flower was Guizhong the Lord of Dust's favorite.
According to an ancient legend among the people of Liyue, in the age dominated by the unfeeling rule of the Lord of Geo, the ingenious Guizhong brought incredible machinery, beautiful paintings, and sweet music to the first peoples of Guili Plains. To bring a standard of well-being to living things, Rex Lapis kept a cold watch over the people as they implemented the principles of right and wrong. At the same time, Guizhong, through her wisdom and resourcefulness, brought extravagant hope and happiness to the vulnerable mortals.
It was when the two God-Kings established an alliance to govern the land that the Glaze Lily first began to flourish in the open country. The elderly in Liyue tell of a legend: In that innocent age, and seized by a sudden desire to make mischief, the crafty Guizhong put her hand over the Lord of Geo's eyes, and laughing as she did so, released glittering blue seeds from her long sleeves, scattering them over the Guili Plains. Then, to the gentle sound of laughter and poetry from the God-Kings, sparkling, glaze-like, blue flowers began to burst into bloom across the upper reaches of the countryside.
The elderly in Liyue say that their ancestors once worked, rested, lived, loved, sang, and played together within a bright and lustrous tapestry of flowers. The mighty gods they worshiped would stroll at their leisure among the fields of Glaze Lilies. At that time, Rex Lapis would listen to the Lord of Dust speak with a childlike happiness and slowly begin to understand the frustrations and delights of the mortal world. Gradually he became aware of a limitless power hidden within humor and tolerance that was lighter than dust.
Perhaps the legend of this beautiful flora, and its origins in the playfulness of the gods all those millennia ago, is nothing more than a romantic tale. Be that as it may, what cannot be refuted is the current threat that extinction poses to Liyue's Glaze Lilies — a situation that undeniably stems from the Archon War over two thousand years ago. During that war, those fragile and innocent flowers were rendered wan and sallow by the innumerable tragedies unfolding among the people. Engulfed and drowned in the great waves, the surviving remnants were marooned among the fertile soils of the Guili Plains, and there they remained.
Amidst the cataclysmic turmoil and brutal slaughter, the Lord of Dust, light and gentle as she was, could not escape misfortune. It is said that she fell in the land of those first settlers, and came to rest among the last Glaze Lilies. The story goes that, before becoming dust herself, she left one final riddle to her beloved friend: People say that the wisdom of dust can soften a heart of stone, even if it takes a thousand years.
After the goddess of dust was taken by the wind, the last Glaze Lily in Guili Plains withered away to dust in turn.
It would be hundreds of years later, when peace returned, that the Geo Archon would plant anew the seeds of his old friend's favorite flower in the land of Liyue. When I myself visited Liyue, I noticed that although these flowers were few indeed, they demonstrated healthy growth. Perhaps in another hundred years, another sea of Glaze Lilies awaits this now peaceful land.